README.md, before:

# Peer-to-Peer

Basic socket programming in python. Peer to peer messaging and subscriber system

NOTE: when downloading this, install everything necessary by typing in the project terminal: "pip install -r requirements.txt"
NOTE: since I'm testing this on one machine and running both terminals from the same project folder I will use the same chat_keys.json file for both peers.

What I implemented in this project:

1. Each user acts as peers (client + server)

2. Messages between users are sent and received using raw Python sockets

3. Asynchronous handling with threads allows user to receive messages while typing

4. every P2P chat has its own key and messages are encrypted before sending and then only decrypted if provided with the correct key. (if intercepted, gibberish without key)

5. Minimal UI to better display what is happening.

6. JavaScript Polling for automatic live-updating active users, so when a new user logs in I notice them and when they log out I see they're not active anymore

Commit message:

see your friends list, see who is active, chat with them if you're friends

README.md, after:

# Peer-to-Peer

Basic socket programming in python. Peer to peer messaging and subscriber system

NOTE: when downloading this, install everything necessary by typing in the project terminal: "pip install -r requirements.txt"
NOTE: since I'm testing this on one machine and running both terminals from the same project folder I will use the same chat_keys.json file for both peers.

How to test this project: run python3 app.py and then open two tabs in two different browsers. Login by typing in a username, and a port number, do this in both terminals (use a different port number but same IP number if testing on just one device). Then you can see the two active users on the home page. Add a friend by typing in their username, Ip address, and port number. Then you can click their name to get into the chat. You can only get into a chat with someone if they're your friend.

What I implemented in this project:

1. Each user acts as peers (client + server)

2. Messages between users are sent and received using raw Python sockets

3. Asynchronous handling with threads allows user to receive messages while typing

4. Minimal html/css UI to better display what is happening.

5. Sqlite3 data base to store messages

6. JavaScript Polling for automatic live-updating active users, so when a new user logs in I notice them and when they log out I see they're not active anymore

7. Have to "make friend" with a user before sending them a message. This makes it so we don't have to type the IP, port, and username everytime we want to message someone

8. You can see a list of your friends on the /home page and whether they are active or not

9. make sure to always log out when you're done chatting.
